we have not understood yet that the
discovery of the unconscious means an
enormous spiritual task which must be
accomplished if we wish to preserve our
civilization Carl Jung
human civilization consists of countless
traditions codes of conduct and systems
of ethics depending on what social group
we belong and what environment we grew
up in
there's always an ideology in regards to
what's preferable and what's not
therefore we develop a set of behaviors
in order to fit the situations we find
ourselves in we create a fake persona
that reflects how the world wants to see
us we consciously hide a part of our
undesirable characteristics behind the
masks we wear however as Swiss
psychiatrist Carl Jung observed there's
an unwanted part of ourselves that we
are not conscious of Hume called this
the shadow the shadow is a result of the
imbalance between who you want to be and
who we truly are the more we repress the
dancer the shadow becomes and because we
are unaware of what's lurking in the
dark we're at risk that lashes out
unexpectedly with all the consequences
that this entails according to Jung part
of self-realization is the integration
of the shadow into our personality when
we make the unconscious conscious and
stop rejecting the unwanted parts of
ourselves we break the chains that hold
us back from moving towards a state of
wholeness the process of integrating our
darkside is called shadow work
[Music]
the true efficacy of shadow work as a
process is that it allows us to become
more authentic conscious and whole by
allowing disowned and unconscious
aspects of our personality to integrate
back into our conscious awareness in
order to understand why the process of
shadow work lends itself so well to
these ends we must first understand that
shadow work is a subtractive process and
not an additive process this means that
it's not about directly and actively
adding unconscious aspects of our
personality back into our conscious
awareness in reality it's about
subtracting the barriers to
consciousness that are the root cause of
why those aspects are repressed away in
the first place you can think of these
barriers to consciousness a lot like a
dam and the conscious and unconscious
aspects of ourselves a lot like water
thus in this metaphor all the water that
builds up in the reservoir of the dam is
a representation of the parts of our
psyche that end up unconscious to us and
in the shadow these obstructed aspects
of the self are thus unable to flow from
the unconscious mind to the conscious
mind because there is a metaphorical dam
in the way so in terms of our dam
metaphor it's not very effective to
start actively bailing water from the
reservoir of the dam to the other side
it's much more effective to simply
remove the dam and if you do that the
water will naturally and effortlessly
find its level and flow downstream and
that's the goal of shadow work with
shadow work you're trying to remove
barriers in the form of emotions and
thoughts that keep parts of ourselves
from flowing naturally into the light of
consciousness so the key to shadow work
is to find the mental and emotional
barriers and dissolve them or let them
go
before integration can take place it's
essential to acknowledge the existence
of our shadow the question is how does
the unconscious manifest according to
you we cannot communicate with the
unconscious in the same way that we do
with the conscious realm of our psyche
while the language of the conscious mind
is predominantly literal the unconscious
speaks in symbolic language this
language is built on metaphors and
archetypes symbolic language is
prevalent in mythology a myth is a story
that preserves its meaning throughout
different cultures and time periods
because it uses Universal aspects of
existence things like trees animals
natural phenomena the nurturing mother
the old wise man or birth and death the
shadow therefore communicates on a
primordial level in addition to that it
uses images of conscious memory material
that are saved in the back room of our
psyche when the shadow reaches out to us
it's a sign that a repressed part of
ourselves wants to be integrated despite
the blockages that withhold it from
doing so this reaching out can happen in
dreams as well as in our imagination
during waking hours thus dream analysis
is one of the tools that young applied
to identify these symbolic images that
dreams produce and the practice of
active imagination is a form of
meditation in which one engages in a
dialogue with these images these methods
aren't without risk
as a young speaks of terrifying
encounters during his experimentation
with his own conscious a more
straightforward way in which the shadow
communicates is by psychological
projection this happens when we observe
in others what we repress in ourselves a
consequence of this is an emotional
reaction from the shadow which could
manifest through harsh judgments and
even anger ironically many people aren't
aware that he behaviors of others that
irritate them most likely hide in
themselves as well these could be all
kinds of things like the public display
of emotions feminine traits and men
masculine traits and women repressed
sexuality or the desire for a creative
outlet there are many reasons why we'd
feel the need to get rid of these traits
but by repression we cast them into the
shadow this may hide them but it doesn't
mean that they are gone and what devoid
of light starts to fester until it
becomes a demon that pulls the strings
behind the curtain without us even
realizing it I quote it is absolutely
essential always to have our
consciousness well enough in hand to pay
sufficient attention to our reality to
the here and now otherwise we are in
danger of being overrun by an
unconscious which knows nothing of this
human world of ours end quote so
awareness is the first step in mediating
between shadow and consciousness when we
confront what lingers in the dark we can
identify and tear down the barriers that
prevent it from integration
as we are engaged in the process of
shadow work we must first understand
that the state of entropy for our psyche
is wholeness and total integration this
means that there is already a constant
psychological force pulling us back into
a state of conscious integration as our
natural setpoint and it is only the
resistance against wholeness and
integration that creates a barrier to
reaching this state of entropy this is
why meditation is so effective as a
consciousness work practice but that's a
topic for a different day so to do
shadow work we must first find the parts
of ourselves that we are resisting
against so that we can understand the
nature of our resistance and eventually
unravel that resistance and let down our
guard to find the source or sources of
resistance and thus the barriers to
becoming aware of the repressed aspects
of the psyche we have only two places
that these obstructions can reside the
thoughts and the emotions the thought
based barriers to consciousness are
things like our self-concept aka ego our
beliefs our worldview our ideals and our
judgments about ourselves and others so
to let go of these barriers we must
first call all of these things into
question and see if they are actually
based in truth and perhaps most
importantly we have to dig into our
motives for attaching ourselves to these
thought based barriers to consciousness
in the first place
finding our motives is a great doorway
into understanding why something is in
the shadow now in my opinion the easiest
thought based barrier to begin with is
to examine our judgments and aversions
toward other people so if we ever find
ourselves propping up our own identity
by internally or externally judging
someone else this is something to pay
attention to and to try to find deeper
motives for this judgment arising
the other place to look for barriers to
integration is in the realm of emotions
when we experience emotions that are too
big for us to process at a given time it
creates trauma and the trauma response
causes the mind body complex to work
together to keep us unconscious of those
emotions to keep us from being
overwhelmed by them so if we still have
old emotional wounds that have not been
processed or healed the trauma response
of the mind and body will continue to
keep certain memories and parts of the
self repressed away from the light of
consciousness these barriers to
consciousness can be dissolved through
focusing toward processing old traumas
and engaging in an emotional exploration
of the repressed aspects of the self
shadow work is the umbrella term given
two different methods to achieve shadow
integration owning our dark side isn't a
matter of adding but a matter of
subtracting so instead of actively
bringing back unconscious aspects into a
personalities we aim for removing the
blockages that resist the motions of
entropy
so we embark on a natural flow toward
wholeness needless to say this starts
with the acknowledgement that below the
surface of our conscious awareness there
is indeed a dark side this video is a
product of a collaboration between
emeralds from the diamond net and enzo
Ganga if you're interested in more
content about the shadow you Mian
psychology and many other related topics
I would highly recommend you check out
emeralds channel the diamond net in the
end screen you'll find a link to our
playlist with videos about the shadow
thank you for watching
[Music]
you